When a search is conducted in Iconclass, the labels are browsed and according to the search method, results are listed. The results consist of the notation and its label. Although Iconclass is described as a classification system for the content of images, the search conducted is not between the visual data, but between the conceptual descriptions assigned to the images. The example images of the artwork, which can be found under the labels when browsed in the Iconclass website, are mere representations of these labels.  
There are different ways to conduct a search in textual data. Two of the common methods are detecting a string match or calculating semantic similarity between the input and the corpus.  
A string match is defined as the detection of the given set of characters in the corpus as whole or as a part of a string. Some algorithms also allow insertions, deletions and substitutions in the searched string. Such algorithms usually list the results according to similarity calculations using distance metrics such as n-gram overlap.  
Calculating semantic similarity is a more complex task. This method uses word embeddings to measure similarity. A word embedding is defined as a representation of a word as a real-valued vector. The word embeddings are encoded in a way that words that are closer in vector space are similar in meaning. As a result, similarity between words can be computed using vector similarity measures such as cosine similarity.  
It is also important to note that one image can be classified under more than one notation, since there can be more than one meaning or concept extracted from that image. The assignment of the images to the labels is made by human cataloguers. While the manual assignment of images to notations may seem conceptually similar to the search process in Iconclass, it is a different process and is not examined in this study.